I miss when the web developed new ways of communication every day — google wave, twitter’s open API, dropbox’s public folder...
I always thought the internet was a canvas of infinite possibility
the formula was simple:
anyone can create
you can communicate with anyone
unlimited creativity
but the web hasn’t developed in the way I thought
it seems to get less collaborative, less creative, and less open with time
what we ended up with was...
platforms
separate monoliths
no shared code among devs
not a lot of collaboration among users
users + devs don’t drive direction of the platform
infinite feed of updates
tailored to individuals
unlimited consumption
what if there was an alternative to platforms?
an open canvas where developers and creative people of all types could remix 
each other’s work and build on top of each other’s projects?
        is a website where every change you make to it is permanent and anyone
can send custom code to anyone else
&raquo; more details
I’m hoping it leads to a wilder web
deeper collaboration
faster innovation
users who take control and define their own platforms
&raquo; example code
will you join me?
&raquo; faq
my name is david. the internet has always felt like my first home. I want to see what it would look like if everyone could share in its tremendous power.
var is a static web host where every page is remixable by default
one click and you have a copy of any web page hosted on the platform.
not only that, but the front-end code (HTML, CSS, JS) is treated as the source of truth. Whatever changes the owner makes to a page (through DevTools, some custom JS, or clicking a button that does something) is saved permanently to the DB
this makes it possible for front-end devs to create interactive applications just by adding a JS plugin to the page
also — if people know your website’s address (e.g. var.so/abc123) they’ll be able to send you code that (if you accept it) will run on your page, so there’s a social aspect as well
I'm hoping projects like this idea will lead to a renaissance of blogs, personal websites, and remixable apps that push our normal conception of what a website is to the breaking point.
you can send your friends (or anonymous internet strangers) friendly “viruses” that alter their website and do whatever fun things you can imagine
defend your site against a hoard of tiny alients that want to eat all your written text — mmm text yummy!
plant a garden around your favorite poem and watch vines from the garden intertwine with the poem's words
send your friend a set of monarch butterflies that fly all over their site and redesign it with colors you choose
how do i use it?
you create a website on var.so, alter it however you want, and message your friends with code or text using the built-in messenger
how is it safe is it? is it secure?
any type of code can be run, so make sure you trust where it’s coming from before you accept it
your website will be backed up before you accept code, so you can always get back to a previous version
how do I save the changes forever?
by default, any change made to your website will be permanent
how do I get my website back if it’s destroyed?
you can click “save website backup” to backup your website any time
your website is also backed up before you accept any new code, so you can always restore a previous version
can I have a preview of what the code will do?
we won’t have this feature at launch, but you can always test it out and if you don’t like what it does, restore your website from its last backup
what happens when I accept code?
it will immediately be added to your website and run. any changes it makes will be permanent
but if you don’t like what it does, you can restore a previous version of your website
can I see the code before I accept it?
yes, you’ll be able to view the full code by clicking “open code” before acceting or rejecting it
so it’s like recursively travelling into a code space inside of a code space?
yes